>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, AUGUST 2:
PRESIDENT OBAMA PUSHES FOR
DEEPER CUTS IN PLANET-WARMING
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS.
BUT INDUSTRIES VOW TO SUE TO
BLOCK NEW REGULATIONS.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, SOWING
SEEDS OF DIVERSITY IN THE TECH
INDUSTRY, BY TRAINING BLACK AND
HISPANIC TEENS TO CODE.
>> I CAN NOW BUILD SOMETHING AND
BRING IT TO THE TABLE AND SHOW
THIS IS WHAT I'VE DONE.
>> Sreenivasan: AND, TAKING ON
MUSLIM STEREOTYPES... THROUGH
STAND-UP COMEDY.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
IN LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS PROPOSING THE
TOUGHEST REGULATIONS IN U.S.
HISTORY TO COMBAT CLIMATE
CHANGE.
IN A VIDEO PREVIEWING TOMORROW'S
ANNOUNCEMENT, THE PRESIDENT SAYS
CLIMATE CHANGE IS NOT AN
OPINION, BUT A FACT AND A
THREAT.
HE CALLS POWER PLANTS THE
BIGGEST DOMESTIC SOURCE OF
POLLUTING EMISSIONS THAT
CONTRIBUTE TO GLOBAL WARMING.
THE MOST SIGNIFICANT RULE WOULD
REQUIRE EXISTING POWER PLANTS TO
CUT EMISSIONS BY 32% BY THE YEAR
2030, COMPARED TO 2005 LEVELS.
OTHER RULES WOULD LIMIT
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW COAL-BURNING
PLANTS AND REQUIRE MORE USE OF
CLEAN ENERGY SOURCES LIKE WIND
AND SOLAR.
>> WE LIMIT THE AMOUNT OF TOXIC
CHEMICALS-- LIKE MERCURY AND
SULFUR AND ARSENIC-- IN OUR AIR
AND WATER, AND WE'RE BETTER OFF
FOR IT.
BUT EXISTING POWER PLANTS CAN
STILL DUMP UNLIMITED AMOUNTS OF
HARMFUL CARBON POLLUTION INTO
THE AIR WE BREATHE.
FOR THE SAKE OF OUR KIDS, FOR
THE HEALTH AND SAFETY OF ALL
AMERICANS, THAT'S ABOUT TO
CHANGE.
>> Sreenivasan: EVERY STATE
WOULD BE REQUIRED TO GIVE THE
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
ITS PLAN FOR CURBING EMISSIONS.
BUT THE RULES FACE OPPOSITION
FROM CONGRESSIONAL REPUBLICANS
AND LAWSUITS FROM THE ENERGY
INDUSTRY AND COAL POWER STATES.
TO DISCUSS OBAMA'S CLIMATE
CHANGE PLAN, I'M JOINED BY "NEW
YORK TIMES" REPORTER GARDINER
HARRIS, WHO IS COVERING THE
STORY IN WASHINGTON, D.C.
SO THESE HAVE TARGETS UNDER THIS
PLAN BUT THEY CAN SET THEIR OWN
WAY TO GET TO THOSE TARGETS
RIGHT?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
AND THEY CAN SORT OF TAKE TWO
DIFFERENT PATHS, EVEN DO A CAP
AND TRADE PATHWAY WHICH IS
ACTUALLY THE FAVORED PATHWAY BY
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION WHICH
STATE'S SORT OF GET TOGETHER IN
A REGIONAL WAY TRY HIT THEIR
TARGETS AND IF ONE STATE GETS A
LOT MORE IN TERMS OF CARBON
REDUCTION IT CAN THEN SELL THAT
CARBON REDUCTION TO A
NEIGHBORING STATE THAT DIDN'T
QUITE HIT ITS TARGET.
THE OTHER WAY TO DO IT IS, THAT
THE STATES COULD SIMPLY REGULATE
THEIR WAY TO THE CUT.
AND REQUIRE REDUCTIONS ON A SORT
OF A PLANT-BY-PLANT BASIS.
AND HARI THIS IS OBVIOUSLY GOING
TO LEAD TO A HUGE POLITICAL
BATTLE.
>> RIGHT AND THE OPPOSITION IS
LINED UP.
CERTAINLY THERE ARE COAL STATES
SUCH AS WEST VIRGINIA THAT ARE
GOING TO PUSH BACK.
SO HOW LONG COULD THIS TAKE?
>> SO I LIVED IN HAZARD,
KENTUCKY FOR MANY, MANY YEARS
OBVIOUSLY ONE OF THE IMPORTANT
COAL PRODUCING AREAS OF THE
COUNTRY AND THIS IS GOING TO BE
VERY HARD FOR THOSE PLACES AND
IT'S LIKELY GOING TO LEAD TO THE
SHUTDOWN OF MUCH OF THE COAL
PRODUCING CAPACITY IN THE UNITED
STATES, AT LEAST IN THE
APPALACHIA REGION.
BUT YOU'RE RIGHT, STATES HAVE TO
COME UP WITH THEIR PLANS WITH
THE GOAL FOR THESE REDUCTIONS TO
BEGIN BITING IN 2022.
>> THE OPPOSITION SAYS THIS IS
GOING TO RAISE PRICES FOR
UTILITY CONSUMERS, ENERGY
CONSUMERS.
THE WHITE HOUSE SAYS IT WILL
LOWER PRICES.
HOW DO WE FIGURE THIS OUT?
>> WHAT THIS RULE WILL DO IS
ACCELERATE CHANGES THAT ARE
ALREADY GOING ON IN THE MARKET.
I MEAN, THE COAL POWERED POWER
PLANT IS GOING AWAY ALREADY.
BECAUSE COMB IS ACTUALLY FAIRLY
EXPENSIVE, COMPARED TO, RIGHT
NOW, NATURAL GAS WHICH IS ALMOST
FREE BECAUSE OF THE ABUNDANCE OF
GAS IN FRACKING.
THERE ARE SOME PLACES THAT ARE
CLEARLY, THIS IS GOING TO BE
MORE EXPENSIVE, SOME PLACES OUT
WEST, SOME PLACES IN APPALACHIA
THAT DEPEND HEAVILY ON COAL
FOURTH POWER PLANTS.
THEY ARE GOING TO HAVE TO MAKE
SOME FAIRLY WRENCHING
TRANSITIONS.
>> ALL RIGHT, GARDINER HARRIS,
THANK YOU FOR BEING WITH US.
>> HAPPY TO BE WITH YOU HARI.
>> Sreenivasan: MAJOR
PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES ARE
REPORTEDLY RECRUITING THOUSANDS
OF RECREATIONAL DRUG USERS TO
TEST A NEW GENERATION OF
MEDICINES THAT DETER ADDICTION.
THE IMPACT OF THE NEW MEDS COULD
BE SIGNIFICANT.
THE U.S. FOOD AND DRUG
ADMINISTRATION CALLS
PRESCRIPTION DRUG ADDICTION A"
NATIONAL EPIDEMIC" AND
ESTIMATES THAT MORE THAN TWO-
MILLION AMERICANS ABUSE OPIOIDS.
OFFICIALS SAY ROUGHLY 45 PEOPLE
DIE OF OVERDOSES EVERY DAY.
FINANCIAL TIMES REPORTER DAVID
CROW REPORTED THIS STORY AND
JOINS ME TO EXPLAIN EXACTLY HOW
THESE DRUG TESTS ARE BEING
CONDUCTED.
SHOCKS PEOPLE TO SAY WAIT A
MINUTE, THEY WERE RECRUITING
DRUG USERS, HOW DO THE TRIALS
WORK?
>> THEY RECRUIT THESE DRUG
USERS, THEY FIND THEM THROUGH
MARKETING NAMELY WORD OF MOUTH.
YOU HAVE TO BE A BE RECREATIONAL
DRUG USER BUT NOT ADDICTED.
THESE TRIALS LAST BETWEEN THREE
DAYS AND 30 DAYS AND YOU ARE
ASKED TO ABUSE THE OLD OPIOID,
THE BE DRUG THAT IS EASY TO
ABUSE, THE ABUSE DETERRENT AND
THEN THE DETERRENT.
MANY FOR THE PHARMACEUTICAL
COMPANIES WITH DEVELOPING THESE
NEW MEDICINES YOU WANT TO GET A
LOWER SCORE, LOWER THE PLACEBO
THAN THE ACTUAL PRODUCT.
>> ONE OF THE PEOPLE TOOK 21
PILLS IN FIVE MINUTES IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> THAT'S CORRECT, THE CLINIC I
SPOKE TO SAID THE VAST MAJORITY
OF THOSE WERE PLACEBOS.
>> HE WOULDN'T HAVE KNOWN THAT.
>> HE WOULDN'T HAVE KNOWN THAT
AND TAKING 21 PILLS IN FIVE
MINUTES IS QUITE DIFFICULT.
>> HOW BIG A MARKET IS IT?
>> IT IS A BIG MARKET.
THERE IS AN ISRAELI COMPANY THAT
IS VERY BIG IN THIS AND
PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES, PURDUE
PHARMA IS PRODUCING THEM.
>> IF SOMEBODY COULD TAKE FOR
PAIN BUT WOULD BE LESS ADDICTED
TO?
>> STOP TAMPERING THE PILL TO
MAKE THE EXPERIENCE MORE
ENJOYABLE.
>> SNORT IT GRIND IT UP?
>> AND INSERT IT IN A SYRINGE.
THESE PILLS HAVE A VERY HARD
COATINGS, THEY HAVE A GUMMING
AGENT THAT MAKES THEM HARDER TO
DISSOLVE.
BUT THEY DON'T SOLVE THE PROBLEM
OF ABUSING THESE PILLS ORALLY.
YOU CAN STILL TAKE MORE OF THEM
THAN YOU OTHERWISE WOULD HAVE
BEEN MEANT TO.
>> IS THERE A POSSIBILITY
SOMEBODY ABUSING THESE OPIOIDS
MIGHT COME OUT WORSE?
SAY THEY ARE TAKING 21 PILLS AND
IT IS THE OPIOID AND THEY ARE
ALREADY ABUSING THE DRUG?
>> THESE PEOPLE ARE EXPERIENCED
DRUG USERS.
THERE IS A TEST TO MAKE SURE
THEY'RE NOT ADDICTED.
THEY GO THROUGH WASHOUT PERIOD.
IF THEIR BODIES SHOW SIGNS OF
ADDICTION THEY ARE NOT ALLOWED
ON THE TRIAL.
THERE ARE EXPERTS WHO SAY THIS
IS NOT A FOOLPROOF SYSTEM AND
THE LINE BETWEEN ABUSE AND
ADDICTION CAN OFTEN BE VERY
SO SOME OF THESE PEOPLE
MAY NOT BE ADDICTED TODAY BUT
YOU DON'T KNOW WHETHER THEY
WON'T GET ADDICTED FURTHER DOWN
THE LINE.
>> SO DAVID CROW OF THE
FINANCIAL TIMES THANKS FOR BEING
HERE.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
LEADING AMERICAN
>> Sreenivasan: LEADING AMERICAN
TECHNOLOGY COMPANIES, SUCH AS
APPLE, GOOGLE, FACEBOOK,
TWITTER, AND YAHOO, CONCEDE A
VERY LOW PERCENTAGE OF THEIR
TECH WORKERS ARE BLACK OR
HISPANIC, TYPICALLY AROUND THREE
PERCENT.
ONLY APPLE IS ABOVE 10%.
IN TONIGHT'S "SIGNATURE
SEGMENT," WE LOOK AT A PROGRAM
THAT IS TRYING TO CHANGE THAT
REALITY, BY CREATING
OPPORTUNITIES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE
OF COLOR TO LEARN HOW TO CODE.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
KARLA MURTHY HAS THE STORY.
>> Reporter: REMEMBER THE
CLASSIC ARCADE GAME "SPACE
INVADERS"?
THESE HIGH SCHOOL KIDS ARE
BUILDING THEIR OWN VERSION FROM
SCRATCH USING PYTHON, A COMPUTER
LANGUAGE THEY'RE LEARNING AT
CODING CAMP.
THESE BOYS ARE IN THE MIDDLE OF
A SIX-WEEK SUMMER PROGRAM RUN BY
ALL STAR CODE, A NON-PROFIT
GROUP IN NEW YORK CITY THAT
PREPARES YOUNG MEN OF COLOR TO
WORK IN THE TECH INDUSTRY.
17-YEAR-OLD DE ANDRE KING LIVES
IN QUEENS.
HE DID WELL IN HIS 10TH GRADE
COMPUTER CLASS, SO HIS HIGH
SCHOOL COUNSELOR ENCOURAGED HIM
TO APPLY.
>> I DIDN'T GET IN THE FIRST
TIME.
I DID THE APPLICATION AGAIN, AND
WHEN I GOT THE EMAIL THAT
MORNING, I WAS EXCITED.
>> Reporter: HOW HAS IT BEEN SO
FAR?
>> IT'S BEEN EXCELLENT.
IT'S KIND OF, LIKE, I'M DOING
SOMETHING EVERY DAY THAT I
ENJOY.
IT'S KIND OF, LIKE, I'M ALREADY
HAVING MY JOB.
>> Reporter: A JOB, EVEN A
CAREER, IS PRECISELY KING'S
GOAL.
>> IF I ALREADY AM WELL-VERSED
IN HTML, CSS, JAVA, JAVASCRIPT,
PYTHON, THEN I CAN NOW BUILD
SOMETHING AND BRING IT TO THE
TABLE.
THAT GIVES ME KIND OF THE UPPER
HEAD OVER MY... OVER, YOU KNOW,
OTHER APPLICANTS.
>> Reporter: PHILANTHROPIST
CHRISTINA LEWIS HALPERN LAUNCHED
ALL STAR CODE TWO YEARS AGO TO
ADDRESS THE TECH INDUSTRY'S LACK
OF DIVERSITY.
SHE SAW ORGANIZATIONS DEDICATED
TO GETTING MORE GIRLS INTERESTED
IN STEM-- SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY,
AND MATH-- BUT NOTHING
COMPARABLE FOR BOYS OF COLOR.
>> PEOPLE KEPT ON EXPECTING ME
TO COME IN AND TALKING ABOUT
GIRLS.
I HAD TO DO SO MUCH EXPLAINING
OF MAKING THE CASE THAT BOYS OF
COLOR ARE UNDERREPRESENTED AS
WELL.
>> Reporter: HALPERN'S
INSPIRATION FOR ALL STAR CODE
CAME FROM HER FATHER, REGINAL
LEWIS.
HE GREW UP IN THE SEGREGATED
SOUTH AND MADE IT TO HARVARD LAW
SCHOOL, BECAME A SUCCESSFUL WALL
STREET FINANCIER, AND THE FIRST
BLACK AMERICAN TO OWN A BILLION
DOLLAR COMPANY.
AFTER HER FATHER DIED IN 1993,
HALPERN DISCOVERED THAT A SUMMER
PROGRAM FOR BLACK STUDENTS AT
HARVARD LAW HAD BEEN
INSTRUMENTAL IN HER FATHER'S
PATH TO SUCCESS.
>> IF MY FATHER WERE A YOUNG MAN
TODAY, HE WOULD WANT TO BE IN
TECH.
AND THAT'S WHY WE EXIST, I
WANTED A PROGRAM THAT COULD HELP
YOUNG MEN WHO WERE LIKE MY
FATHER, WHO ARE TALENTED, WHO
ARE DRIVEN, BUT DIDN'T HAVE
ACCESS.
>> Reporter: HALPERN, WHO IS ON
THE BOARD OF HER FATHER'S
FOUNDATION, HAS DONATED $600,000
TO ALL STAR CODE.
THIS YEAR, IT RECEIVED ALMOST
240 APPLICATIONS FOR 40 SPOTS.
MOST STUDENTS ARE BLACK OR
LATINO AND ATTEND NEW YORK CITY
PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOLS.
AND 70 PERCENT ARE FROM LOW-
INCOME FAMILIES.
BRYAN LOZANO IS 16 AND LIVES IN
THE SOUTH BRONX WITH HIS THREE
BROTHERS AND HIS PARENTS, WHO
ARE FROM ECUADOR.
>> MY MOM IS A STAY-AT-HOME MOM.
SHE REALLY TAKES GOOD CARE OF
US.
AND MY DAD'S ACTUALLY A COOK
DOWN BY 59TH STREET.
>> Reporter: LOZANO SAYS GROWING
UP, HIS PARENTS COULDN'T AFFORD
TO BUY HIM THE LATEST GADGETS,
BUT THAT HASN'T STOPPED HIM FROM
LEARNING AS MUCH AS HE CAN ABOUT
TECHNOLOGY.
>> I BUILD SMALL LITTLE, LIKE,
ROBOTS.
AND I'VE WORKED ON LARGE AND
SMALL DRONES.
AND THEY COME WITH PRE-BUILT--
MICROCONTROLLERS THAT ARE CODED
BY, YOU KNOW, PROGRAMMERS.
AND, YOU KNOW, I WANT TO KNOW
EXACTLY WHAT'S GOING IN THESE
CHIPS.
>> Reporter: AT CAMP, LOZANO AND
HIS CLASSMATES LEARN CODING BY
WORKING ON PROJECTS LIKE
DESIGNING APPS AND VIDEO GAMES,
ROBOTICS AND WEBSITE DESIGN.
LOZANO SAYS HE'S USED TO
FIGURING OUT COMPUTER PROBLEMS
ON HIS OWN, BUT IN CLASS IT'S
DIFFERENT.
>> WHENEVER I COME UP AGAINST
ANY OBSTACLE, I HAVE TO FIND A
SOLUTION ONLINE, OR TEST OUT
DIFFERENT THINGS.
>> WHO'S USED A BREADBOARD
BEFORE?
>> BUT HERE, YOU KNOW, OUR
TEACHERS ARE HERE TO GUIDE US IN
THE RIGHT DIRECTION.
>> THE WAY THIS WORKS, IF YOU'LL
NOTICE, IS IT'S SET IN SORT OF
LIKE A GRID.
THERE ARE FOUR SECTIONS BROKEN
UP LIKE THAT.
>> Reporter: IN ADDITION TO THE
TEACHER, THERE ARE TWO CAMP
GRADUATES AND TWO COLLEGE
STUDENTS MAJORING IN COMPUTER
SCIENCE TO HELP OUT IN CLASS.
>> I LEARNED ALL THIS STUFF OVER
THE COURSE OF AT LEAST A MONTH.
AND THEY ARE DOING ALL THE
FUNDAMENTAL STUFF IN TWO WEEKS.
SO IT IS A LOT.
>> I'M NOT GOING TO LIE, THERE'S
CERTAIN DAYS WHERE I DON'T
UNDERSTAND BECAUSE I DON'T...
I'M LEARNING, YOU KNOW.
IT'S LIKE THE PROCESS.
NOBODY KNOWS EVERYTHING.
>> Reporter: ON THIS DAY AT
CAMP, KING WAS STRUGGLING TO
WRITE THE CODE FOR HIS SPACE
INVADERS GAME.
AFTER AN HOUR, HE THOUGHT HE
FINALLY FIGURED OUT HOW TO GET
HIS SPACESHIP TO WORK.
>> I STARTED INPUTTING THE CODE,
AND I THOUGHT I GOT IT.
YOU KNOW, I WAS EXCITED.
I WAS, LIKE, "YES, THIS IS GONNA
WORK, I'M FINALLY GONNA BE ABLE
TO MOVE ONTO THE NEXT STEP."
AND WHEN I PRESS... WHEN I
PRESSED ENTER, IT DIDN'T WORK.
>> Reporter: THAT'S WHEN HE
ANNOUNCED TO THE CLASS: "I HAVE
FAILED."
>> ONCE YOU SAY THAT, EVERYBODY
STARTS CLAPPING.
AND YOU... IT KIND OF BLOCKS YOU
FROM BEING DISCOURAGED.
AT FIRST WHEN I WOULD FAIL, I
WOULDN'T SAY ANYTHING.
YOU KNOW, I WOULD TRY TO TOUGH
IT OUT.
AND ONE THING THAT COMES WITH
FAILURE IS, YOU KNOW,
EMBARRASSMENT.
HERE, THERE'S NONE OF THAT.
THERE'S NO, "OH, YOU'RE STUPID,"
OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
>> CELEBRATING FAILURE IS
INTRINSIC TO OUR PROGRAM.
WHEN YOU FAIL AT SOMETHING, WHEN
YOU STRUGGLE WITH IT, THAT
DOESN'T MEAN YOU'RE BAD AT IT.
THAT MEANS YOU HAVEN'T DONE IT
ENOUGH.
THAT'S AN OPPORTUNITY TO LEARN.
>> Reporter: MARISSA SHORENSTEIN
IS PRESIDENT OF AT&T NEW YORK,
WHICH CONTRIBUTED $100,000 TO
ALL STAR CODE.
>> WE'RE VERY EXCITED ABOUT THE
ORGANIZATION AND WHAT THEY'RE
DOING.
WE'RE REALLY EXCITED ABOUT THE
TALENT POOL THAT THEY'RE GOING
TO DEVELOP, AND WE SUPPORT A LOT
OF OTHER PROGRAMS AROUND THE
COUNTRY THAT ARE HELPING TO
INVEST IN YOUNG TALENT.
>> Reporter: AT&T HAS ALSO GIVEN
$1 MILLION TO THE GROUP "GIRLS
WHO CODE."
OTHER COMPANIES ARE INVESTING
HEAVILY IN TRAINING, RECRUITING,
AND HIRING INITIATIVES TO
IMPROVE DIVERSITY.
APPLE SPENT $50 MILLION THIS
YEAR, GOOGLE SAYS IT WILL INVEST
$150 MILLION, AND INTEL
ANNOUNCED IT WILL INVEST $300
MILLION.
>> ORGANIZATIONS HAVE BEEN
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO DO
THIS BETTER.
THEY'VE BEEN THROWING RESOURCES
AT IT.
>> Reporter: COLUMBIA BUSINESS
SCHOOL PROFESSOR KATHERINE
PHILLIPS STUDIES THE EFFECTS OF
A MORE DIVERSE WORKFORCE.
>> IT'S NOT GOING TO BE
BENEFICIAL IF YOU HAVE A ROUTINE
TASK.
BUT IF YOU HAVE A SITUATION
WHERE YOU NEED INNOVATION, YOU
NEED INFORMATION AND IDEAS TO BE
EXCHANGED, YOU NEED PEOPLE TO
THINK BROADER AND BIGGER ABOUT
THE PROBLEM THAT YOU'RE FACING,
YOU ARE GOING TO GET MORE OUT OF
A DIVERSE GROUP THAN YOU WILL
OUT OF A HOMOGENEOUS ONE IN
THOSE CIRCUMSTANCES.
THAT'S WHAT THE RESEARCH
SUGGESTS.
>> Reporter: PHILLIPS SAYS
GROUPS LIKE ALL STAR CODE PLAY
AN IMPORTANT ROLE IN PREPARING
STUDENTS TO ENTER A DIVERSE
WORKFORCE.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE
KNOW IS THAT PEOPLE TEND TO
LEARN BETTER WHEN THEY'RE
COMFORTABLE.
AND SO, IN FACT, HAVING A
SITUATION LIKE THAT ONE WHERE
YOU CAN GET SUPPORT FROM AND
VALIDATION FROM OTHER PEOPLE WHO
LOOK LIKE YOU IS REALLY
IMPORTANT.
>> Reporter: ANOTHER GOAL OF ALL
STAR CODE IS TO EXPOSE STUDENTS
TO THE INDUSTRY.
THE KIDS GO ON FIELD TRIPS TO
COMPANIES LIKE YELP AND GOLDMAN
SACHS, AND ALL CLASSES AND
WORKSHOPS TAKE PLACE INSIDE THE
OFFICES OF COMPANIES LIKE
MICROSOFT AND GOOGLE.
>> NOTHING COMPARES TO OUR
STUDENTS COMING IN EVERY DAY
ALONGSIDE ACTIVE, WORKING
PROFESSIONALS.
>> Reporter: THE CLASS WE
VISITED WAS HELD AT ALLEY NYC,
AN OFFICE FOR TECH START-UPS.
KEENAN WILLIAMS RUNS A COMPANY
HERE CALLED YOURDEALCLOSED.COM,
WHICH EXPEDITES COMMERCIAL REAL
ESTATE MORTGAGES.
HE HAPPENED TO WALK BY THE CAMP
DOOR ONE DAY AND WANTED TO KNOW
WHAT WAS GOING ON.
>> THAT NONPROFIT DOES THINGS
THAT I WISH I HAD ACCESS TO WHEN
I WAS 13, 14, 15, 16.
THAT'S WHAT I LIKE TO HEAR--
INGENUITY, INNOVATION.
WHO ELSE?
>> Reporter: WILLIAMS STOPS BY
THE CLASS EVERY WEEK.
TODAY, THE BOYS ARE PITCHING HIM
IDEAS BASED ON THEIR CODING
PROJECTS.
>> LET'S SAY THERE'S A CAR
ROBBERY.
AND SO YOU CAN ESSENTIALLY TAKE
PICTURE OF THE MODEL OF THE CAR
THAT YOU KNOW WAS STOLEN.
YOU CAN USE PAINT SHOP TO
GENERATE THE COLOR YOU'RE
LOOKING FOR OF THE CAR, AND YOU
CAN LOOK THROUGH IMAGES ON
GOOGLE MAPS TO FIND THE COLORED
CAR.
SO IMAGINE YOUR CAR GETS STOLEN
AND YOU HAD A WAY TO HAVE AN APP
THAT WOULD CHANGE IT TO A BRIGHT
GREEN COLOR SO YOU WOULD KNOW IF
IT WAS A STOLEN CAR.
>> OH, I LIKE THAT.
I GO IN THERE LITERALLY JUST TO
HELP THEM BROADEN THEIR HORIZON.
THINK BIGGER.
MAYBE TWO YEARS FROM NOW,
THEY'LL REMEMBER THE GUY THAT
CAME INTO TO THEIR PROGRAM AT
A.S.C. THINK, "HE TOLD ME X AND
I'M DOING X."
SO LEGITIMATELY, I'M DEFINITELY
TRYING TO BE AN EXAMPLE.
>> Reporter: SO IF YOU COULD
WORK AT ANY COMPANY RIGHT NOW,
WHERE WOULD YOU WANT TO WORK?
>> I DON'T WANT TO BE CLICHÉ BUT
I GUESS I WOULD HAVE TO SAY
GOOGLE.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S NOTHING BETTER
THAN WORKING AT GOOGLE.
>> Reporter: DOES IT BOTHER YOU
THAT TODAY IN A LOT OF THOSE
PLACES, IN A LOT OF BIG TECH
COMPANIES LIKE GOOGLE, THERE
AREN'T A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO LOOK
LIKE YOU WHO WORK THERE?
>> IT'S NOT SURPRISING TO ME
THAT THERE'S NOT PEOPLE OF COLOR
IN THE TECH FIELD.
BUT IF I CAN BE THAT PERSON TO
CHANGE IT, YOU KNOW, IT'S KIND
OF LIKE BEING THE CHANGE THAT
YOU WANT IN THE WORLD.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW CAN
COMPANIES LIKE GOOGLE IMPROVE
STAFF DIVERSITY?
READ OUR Q&A WITH SENIOR
ENGINEERING DIRECTOR AT GOOGLE
MARCUS MITCHELL ONLINE AT
PBS.ORG/NEWSHOUR.
>> Sreenivasan: AT A RECENT
COMEDY FESTIVAL HERE IN NEW
YORK, COMEDIANS GATHERED TO TAKE
ON ISIS, TERRORISM, AND
PERCEPTIONS OF ISLAM.
THE LINEUP FEATURED ONLY MUSLIM
COMICS-- ALL OF WHOM WERE INTENT
ON SHOWING THAT THERE'S MORE TO
THEIR RELIGION AND CULTURE THAN
A TYPICAL DAY'S NEWS COVERAGE.
THE NEWSHOUR'S MEGAN THOMPSON
REPORTS.
>> "JUST IN CASE THE WORD
'MUSLIM' DIDN'T TIP ANYBODY
OFF," I SAID, "LET ME DRESS LIKE
THIS."
>> Reporter: AT MANHATTAN'S
COMIC STRIP, THE GOAL WAS TO
SHOWCASE MUSLIM TALENT.
THERE WERE JOKES ABOUT HOW
MUSLIMS ARE PERCEIVED TO HOW
ISLAM IS OFTEN PORTRAYED IN THE
NEWS...
>> AFTER A WHILE, YOU KEEP
HEARING THE WORD "MUSLIM" AND
"TERRORIST" TOGETHER, YOU'RE
GOING TO ASSUME THEY'RE
CONNECTED.
>> Reporter: FESTIVAL ORGANIZERS
DEAN OBEIDALLAH AND MAYSOON
ZAYID HAVE SPENT THEIR CAREERS
CHALLENGING STEREOTYPES.
>> DON'T YOU WATCH "24"?
EVERYTHING WAS FAKE EXCEPT FOR
THE MOTHER KILLING THE INFIDEL.
TOTALLY TRUE.
>> Reporter: AS PROFESSIONAL
COMICS, ZAYID AND OBEIDALLAH
STARTED AN ARAB COMEDY FESTIVAL
AFTER THE SEPTEMBER 11TH
ATTACKS.
FOURTEEN YEARS LATER, THEY FEEL
THE CONSTANT BAD NEWS ABOUT
TERRORISM HAS MADE THINGS WORSE.
AND THEN, THERE'S THE ISLAMIC
STATE, OR ISIS.
>> LOOK AT ISIS.
FIRST OF ALL, THEY'RE HORRIFIC.
SECOND OF ALL, THEY'RE IDIOTS.
I HAD SOMEONE SAY TO ME, I'M NOT
KIDDING, "SO, DEAN, WHAT DO YOU
THINK OF BEHEADINGS?"
WHAT DO YOU THINK I'M GOING TO
THINK?
YOU DON'T GO UP TO WHITE PEOPLE
AND ASK THEM ABOUT THE WORST
THINGS THAT WHITE PEOPLE DO,
LIKE, "HEY, WHAT'S UP WITH
MORTGAGE FRAUD?"
>> Reporter: THERE WERE PLENTY
OF JOKES ABOUT THEIR OWN
RELIGION, FROM THE HOLIDAY OF
RAMADAN TO BEING "HARAM," WHICH
MEANS "SINFUL."
>> I WAS ALLOWED TO CELEBRATE
HALLOWEEN, BUT MY COSTUME HAD TO
BE ADJUSTED, SO THAT IT WOULDN'T
BE HARAM.
HALLOWEEN'S ONLY HARAM IF YOU
LOOK HARAM.
SO, I HAD LIKE A FLAPPER COSTUME
WITH A TURTLENECK AND LEGGINGS.
>> HOW WAS YOUR RAMADAN?
DID YOU FAST?
YEAH, YOU DID?
DID YOU SKIP A DAY?
YOU SKIPPED A WEEK?
OH YEAH!
GIRLS CAN!
THAT'S THE ONLY TIME IN MUSLIM
CULTURE THAT I WISHED I WAS A
WOMAN.
>> WE THOUGHT WHAT BETTER WAY TO
SHOW THE WORLD WHAT THE MAJORITY
OF MUSLIMS REALLY ARE LIKE,
INSTEAD OF THE EXTREMISTS THAT
WE ARE EXPOSED TO ON A DAILY
BASIS ON MAINSTREAM MEDIA.
>> I GET SO SATURATED SOMETIMES
JUST HEARING "MUSLIM, MUSLIM,
MUSLIM, MUSLIM, MUSLIM, MUSLIM"
ON TELEVISION.
I FEEL LIKE PERSIANS FIGURED IT
OUT.
DURING THE IRANIAN HOSTAGE
CRISIS, PEOPLE WERE LIKE, "ARE
YOU IRANIAN?"
AND THEY WERE LIKE, "OH NO, I'M
PERSIAN."
>> Reporter: THESE MUSLIM COMICS
MAKE PLENTY OF JOKES ABOUT
STEREOTYPES.
>> THERE'S A LOT OF TIMES WHEN I
MEET PEOPLE AND I SAY MY NAME,
AND I FEEL LIKE THEY ONLY HEAR
WHAT THEY'RE ALREADY EXPECTING.
BECAUSE I'LL MEET SOMEONE, AND
I'M LIKE, "HI, MY NAME IS
GIBRAN."
AND THEY'RE LIKE, "NICE TO MEET
YOU, MOHAMMAD."
AND I'M LIKE, THAT'S AMAZING.
HOW DID THEY GET MY MIDDLE NAME?
>> YOU KNOW HOW THE AFRICAN-
AMERICAN COMMUNITY HAD A
NEGATIVE WORD, LIKE, THE N-WORD.
LIKE, DON'T EVEN SAY THE N WORD.
YOU KNOW WHAT, AS ARABS AND
MUSLIMS, WE DO HAVE A WORD.
WE HAVE THE WORD "TERRORIST,"
RIGHT?
WHAT IF WE LED BY EXAMPLE.
AND TOOK THE T-WORD AND TURNED
IT INTO SOMETHING?
THIS GOES OUT TO ALL MY
TERRORISTS OUT THERE.
>> IF EVERYBODY HAD A MUSLIM
FRIEND, WE WOULDN'T HAVE TO DO
THIS.
THERE'S NO OTHER WAY.
I WANT TO DO AN ADOPT-A-MUSLIM
PROGRAM, BUT NOBODY REALLY WANTS
THAT RIGHT NOW.
>> Reporter: OBEIDALLAH AND
ZAYID SAY THEY'VE RECEIVED
TAUNTS AND THREATS, MOSTLY
ONLINE.
BUT THEY'RE NOT BACKING DOWN.
>> WHEN YOU MAKE PEOPLE LAUGH,
AND YOU MAKE FUN OF YOURSELF, IN
A WAY, YOU'RE BECOMING LIKABLE.
YOU'RE BECOMING A HUMAN, THREE-
DIMENSIONAL CHARACTER TO THEM.
>> I SAY OFTEN MY MIC IS MY
SWORD.
COMEDY IS ALL ABOUT MAKING
PEOPLE RELATE, AND IF YOU CAN
MAKE SOMEONE RELATE TO YOU,
THEY'RE LESS LIKELY TO HATE YOU.
AND AS WE DO THESE JOKES AND
THEY SEE HOW MUCH OF A COMMON
GROUND WE HAVE WITH THEM, I
THINK THAT THAT HELPS TO
DISSIPATE THE HATE THAT COMES
FROM NOT KNOWING.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SUNDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: PBS MARKS THE
50TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE VOTING
RIGHTS ACT THIS WEEK BY
PREMIERING A NEW FILM: "JFK AND
LBJ: A TIME FOR GREATNESS."
>> BACK IN WASHINGTON, LYNDON
JOHNSON GATHERED ALL THOSE WHO
WOULD FIGHT FOR THE BILL IN
CONGRESS AND THEY TOOK THEIR
LEAD FROM LBJ.
DON'T ACCEPT AMENDMENTS THAT
WILL WEAKEN THE BILL, STAND THE
WAY ALL THE WAY THROUGH.
IT WILL BE JACK KENNEDY'S CIVIL
RIGHTS BILL OR NO BILL AT ALL.
TUNE IN THIS
TUNE IN THIS TUESDAY AT 9:00 PM.
>> Sreenivasan: THE LARGEST
WILDFIRE BURNING ACROSS DROUGHT-
STRICKEN CALIFORNIA HAS DOUBLED
IN SIZE IN THE PAST 24 HOURS.
THE FIRE IN LAKE COUNTY, NORTH
OF SAN FRANCISCO, HAS BURNED
47,000 ACRES, DESTROYED 24
HOMES, AND THREATENS 5,000 MORE.
THE FIRE IS ONLY FIVE PERCENT
CONTAINED, WITH ALMOST 2,000
FIREFIGHTERS STILL BATTLING THE
FLAMES.
ITALY'S COAST GUARD HAS RESCUED
ANOTHER 1,800 MIGRANTS FROM
AFRICA AND SYRIA CROSSING THE
MEDITERRANEAN SEA.
RESCUE CREWS FOUND FIVE DEAD
PASSENGERS ON THE OVER-CROWDED
BOATS.
ITALY HAS RECEIVED 90,000
MEDITERRANEAN MIGRANTS THIS
YEAR.
IN FRANCE LAST NIGHT, 200
MIGRANTS HOPING TO CROSS INTO
THE U.K. BROKE THROUGH SECURITY
FENCES AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE
EUROTUNNEL.
FRENCH POLICE USED CHEMICAL
SPRAY TO FORCE THE GROUP TO
RETREAT.
PERHAPS AN EFFORT TO ENCOURAGE
PASSAGE OF THE NUCLEAR TREATY BY
IRAN TODAY.
OFFICIALS THERE SAID THAT IF
ECONOMIC SANCTIONS ARE LIFTED,
THE COUNTRY PLANS TO BUY 400 NEW
PASSENGER PLANES FROM BOEING AND
AIRBUS.
IRAN SAYS IT WOULD SPEND
$20 BILLION OVER FIVE YEARS TO
REPLACE ITS DECADES-OLD FLEET.
LONGTIME SANCTIONS BY THE U.S.
AND EUROPE WOULD BE EASED BY
IRAN'S AGREEMENT TO HALT ITS
NUCLEAR WEAPONS PROGRAM AND
ALLOW REGULAR INSPECTIONS.
THE U.S. CONGRESS COULD REJECT
THE PACT AND BLOCK THE PLANE
PURCHASES.
>> Sreenivasan: COMING UP ON THE
NEWSHOUR TOMORROW: AS SECRETARY
OF STATE KERRY HEADS TO THE
MIDDLE EAST, WE GET REACTION
FROM THE REGION TO THE IRAN
NUCLEAR DEAL.
AND FINALLY TONIGHT, A ROBOT
PROGRAMMED TO HITCHHIKE ACROSS
AMERICA HAS FALLEN VICTIM TO
VANDALS."
HITCHBOT"-- A THREE-FOOT TALL
TALKING ROBOT-- CAUGHT ITS FIRST
RIDE OUTSIDE BOSTON TWO WEEKS
AGO AND WAS SAN FRANCISCO-BOUND.
BUT HITCHBOT'S JOURNEY ENDED
WHEN IT WAS DAMAGED BEYOND
REPAIR IN PHILADELPHIA LAST
NIGHT.
CANADIAN RESEARCHERS DESIGNED IT
TO TEST HUMAN INTERACTIONS WITH
ROBOTS.
IT SUCCESSFULLY HITCHHIKED
ACROSS CANADA LAST YEAR IN 26
DAYS.
LAST NIGHT, HITCHBOT'S CREATORS
TWEETED, "SOMETIMES BAD THINGS
HAPPEN TO GOOD ROBOTS."
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.